SDK Authentication Guide (#19759)
directus/directus: docs/guides/sdk/authentication.md

---
contributors: Kevin Lewis, Tim de Heiden
description: Learn about all of the ways to control authentication with the Directus SDK
---

# Directus SDK Authentication

The Directus SDK provides multiple ways to [authenticate your requests](/reference/authentication), by either generating

> an access/refresh tokens through login, or by setting a static token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an access and refresh tokens through login, or by setting a static token.
```

## Generate, Use, and Refresh Access Tokens

### Using the `authentication()` Composable

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to have a little introduction to what the `authentication()` composable does and that it's purpose is to manage tokens for you.

```js
import { createDirectus, authentication } from '@directus/sdk';
const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(authentication());
await client.login(email, password);
await client.refresh();
await client.logout();
```

> This approach will handle token refreshing automatically. The current token is stored inside of the initialized client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach will handle refreshing of the token automatically. The current token is stored inside the initialized client.
```

### Using the `rest()` Composable

```js
import { createDirectus, rest, login, refresh, logout } from '@directus/sdk';
const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(rest());
const user = await client.request(login(email, password));
await client.request(refresh('REFRESH TOKEN'));

> await client.request(logout('REFRESH TOKEN'));

Reviewer: For `refresh()` the refresh token is the second parameter and not required in `cookie` mode: 
 * `mode` Whether to retrieve the refresh token in the JSON response, or in a httpOnly secure cookie. One of json, cookie.
 * `refresh_token` The refresh token to use. If you have the refresh token in a cookie through /auth/login, you don't have to submit it here.

Same with the token for `logout()`:
* `refresh_token` The refresh token to use. If you have the refresh token in a cookie through /auth/login, you don't have to submit it here.

Author: Can I get a bit more info on this one?

Reviewer: So the `refresh()` call in this example is wrong as the first parameter is the `mode`, it should be:
```js
await client.request(refresh('REFRESH TOKEN'));
```

Also the statement below should be adjusted, since the refresh token doesn't need to be stored manually & passed to the calls in `cookie` mode, only when using `json` mode.

first message sent must include authentication details - either an `email` and `password`, an `access_token`, or a
`refresh_token`.

## Set a Token

### Create a Directus Client with a Token

```js
import { createDirectus, staticToken, rest } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com')
  .with(staticToken('TOKEN'))
  .with(rest());
```

### Set a Token for Single Requests

```js
import { createDirectus, rest, withToken, readItems } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(rest());

const request = await client.request(
  withToken('TOKEN', readItems('collection'))
);
```

### Set a Client Token Manually

```js
import { createDirectus, authentication } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(authentication());

await client.setToken('TOKEN');
```

### Authenticate Realtime Connection with a Token

```js
import { createDirectus, realtime } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(realtime());

> client.send(JSON.stringify({ type: 'auth', access_token: 'TOKEN' }));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// with access token or static token
client.send(JSON.stringify({ type: 'auth', access_token: 'TOKEN' }));
// with refresh token
client.send(JSON.stringify({ type: 'auth', refresh_token: 'TOKEN' }));
```

---

# Directus SDK Authentication

The Directus SDK provides multiple ways to [authenticate your requests](/reference/authentication), by either generating
an access and refresh tokens through login, or by setting a static token.

## Generate, Use, and Refresh Access Tokens

### Using the `authentication()` Composable

The `authentication()` composable provides the Directus client with new methods related to authentication. It also
manages token storage and refreshing on your behalf.

```js
import { createDirectus, authentication } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(authentication());

await client.login(email, password);
await client.refresh();
await client.logout();
```

This approach will handle refreshing of the token automatically. The current token is stored inside the initialized
client.

### Using the `rest()` Composable

```js
import { createDirectus, rest, login, refresh, logout } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(rest());

const user = await client.request(login(email, password));
await client.request(refresh(mode, refresh_token));

> await client.request(logout(mode, refresh_token));

Reviewer: Thanks for the update ❤️ 
However, the `logout()` method only requires the `refresh_token`:
```suggestion
await client.request(logout(refresh_token));
```

```

> 
> Note that each of the authentication methods must be imported from the SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

first message sent must include authentication details - either an `email` and `password`, an `access_token`, or a
`refresh_token`.

## Set a Token

### Create a Directus Client with a Token

```js
import { createDirectus, staticToken, rest } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com')
  .with(staticToken('TOKEN'))
  .with(rest());
```

### Set a Token for Single Requests

```js
import { createDirectus, rest, withToken, readItems } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(rest());

const request = await client.request(
  withToken('TOKEN', readItems('collection'))
);
```

### Set a Client Token Manually

```js
import { createDirectus, authentication } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(authentication());

await client.setToken('TOKEN');
```

### Authenticate Realtime Connection with a Token

```js
import { createDirectus, realtime } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(realtime());

client.send(JSON.stringify({ type: 'auth', access_token: 'TOKEN' }));
```

> While the property may be called `access_token`, you can also pass a static or refresh token as a value.

Reviewer: Do we need to mention the email/password combination as it's already explained under `Using the realtime() Composable`?

> While the property may be called `access_token`, you can also pass a static or refresh token as a value.

Reviewer 2: We don't need to explicitly mention that, but we'll need to remove the reference to using `refresh_token` as value for `access_token` at least.
So i guess the sentence can also get removed altogether.

> While the property may be called `access_token`, you can also pass a static or refresh token as a value.

Reviewer: Yeah, I think the first part makes sense:

```suggestion
The example uses the `access_token` property (this includes static tokens) but you can also pass a `refresh_token` property.
```

> While the property may be called `access_token`, you can also pass a static or refresh token as a value.

Reviewer: Resolving in favor of adding direct example.

```js
import { createDirectus, authentication } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(authentication());

const token = await client.getToken();
```

### Using the `staticToken()` Composable

```js
import { createDirectus, staticToken } from '@directus/sdk';

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com').with(staticToken('TOKEN'));

const token = await client.getToken();
```

## Configure Custom Storage

Internally, the `getToken()` and `setToken()` make use of the configurable storage, which can be customized for
your environment's needs. There must be a `get()` and `set()` method exposed, and the `AuthData` type returned.

### Example

Instead of storing `AuthData` in an object in the browser, this custom storage implementation stores and retrieves data
in `localStorage`:

```js
import { createDirectus, authentication } from '@directus/sdk';

class LocalStorage {
  get() {
    return JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem("directus-data"));
  }
  set(data) {
    localStorage.setItem("directus-data", JSON.stringify(data));
  }
}

const client = createDirectus('http://directus.example.com')

>   .with(authentication({ storage: new LocalStorage() }));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .with(authentication('json', { storage: new LocalStorage() }));
```

---
contributors: Kevin Lewis, Tim de Heiden
description: Learn about all of the ways to control authentication with the Directus SDK
---

# Directus SDK Authentication

The Directus SDK provides multiple ways to [authenticate your requests](/reference/authentication), by either generating

> an access and refresh tokens through login, or by setting a static token.

Reviewer 3: "by either generating access and refresh tokens..."

The sentence is fine without the "an"

Reviewer: Nice catch! 👍 Fixed now
